
Sprint Review and Retrospective

      Throughout the process of completing our SNHU travel project, each role of the team 
played a big part that led to this project's great success. As for me, the Scrum Master, I executed 
the Sprint Planning efficiently by guiding the team through the meeting and keeping everyone on 
the right course. Daily Scrum meetings were handled very similarly to the Spring Planning, but 
with more hands-on actions with the Product Owner and developers with things like maintaining 
the Sprint Backlog. Also, working to keep every objective on a tight schedule was difficult, but 
necessary, and led to an outstanding outcome.
	Of course, none of this could be done without the efforts of the rest of the team. The 
Product Owner established effective communication by showing transparency with users and/or 
stakeholders and constantly influencing collaboration by allowing everyone to feel open and 
comfortable. They assisted in setting clear project goals and priorities, while working hard to 
define user stories and acceptance criteria, which play a huge part in the quality of the project.
	The developers operated resourcefully through the entirety of the project to ensure all 
necessary information was received. This was achieved by scheduling meetings with other team 
members to obtain more information and consistently performing active listening while 
displaying and encouraging empathy, which can urge conversations to lean toward a more 
positive and productive result. They collaborated effectively with other team members to work 
on user stories and of course design, code, and test based on those user stories. 
	Finally, the testers faithfully executed all necessary tests and worked tirelessly to identify 
and take note of any defects in the process. As it is common with other projects, some user 
stories were short of little important information, along with a couple points of acceptance 
criteria that had to be clarified before moving any further with testing. If any roadblocks were 
presented in this way, the testers approached the Product Owner that created the user stories with 
a set of prepared questions that would eventually be answered.
	A Scrum-agile approached to the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) helped each 
of the user stories come to completion by providing overall structure that just can't exist 
appropriately within a different methodology, like waterfall. This structure includes things like 
consistent meetings for Sprint Planning and Daily Scrums, continuous development and testing, 
dedicated attention to backlog refinement, and persistent reviewing and feedback being given 
and received to and from every team member whenever necessary. 
	Having this persistence and dedication of every team member makes situations that 
solicit a negative outcome to only be met with an organized and efficient approach that produces 
the best solution. More specifically, the flexibility of the team and encouragement from the 
Product Owner and Scrum Master to embrace change inspires the team to quickly adapt to any 
new requirements or priorities that may present themselves. For example, if the developers are 
working hard to move forward on the project, but need more information, they will work 
diligently to get all essential information from the necessary team members. 
	As we all know and practice regularly, effective communication is extremely important 
to the entirety of the work done on a project. For example, let's look at an email sent from one of 
the team's developers to the Product Owner and tester requesting more information that was 
necessary to move forward:
"Dear Product Owner and Tester,
I hope everything is moving smoothly on the project. As for myself, there are important steps that 
need clarification before moving forward with development under the new plan. It is my job to 
ensure we're all on the same page, which is why I would like to being scheduling more frequent 
team meetings to increase the communication between our team members. Please let me know if 
you have any issue with that. I am open to any necessary adjustments or comments. 
I will detail some of these important steps and would appreciate a confirmation of receiving this 
email, then your specific actions to each step listed below:
*	Further clarification on user stories and acceptance criteria.
*	More feedback on all work presented.
*	Ongoing and steady test data to properly assess my code's performance.
*	Perform security testing whenever required to ensure software is sound.

Thank you." (Klotz, 2023, p. 1).
This email was straight to the point, while also encouraging any criticism and/or comments and 
clearly listing all information that was essential to progress to the next stages of the project. 
Another example is a Daily Scrum update I provided during one of our meetings:
"Good morning, team! Thank you for joining me for our daily meeting. Yesterday, the Product 
Owner and I worked to enhance the product backlog to further ensure all user stories are well-
prepared for future spring planning. Also, I met with some of the development team members to 
make sure everything was moving forward as expected at this stage. Today, I plan on reviewing 
our sprint goal and ensuring all user stories are clear and easy to understand for everyone. Let 
me know if anyone has any questions or hurdles that need support."
This meeting update was clear and showcased effective collaboration and teamwork, while also 
encouraging any feedback and thoughts from other team members, and a helping hand to anyone 
needing assistance with any current roadblocks.
	Several organizational tools and Scrum-agile principles helped this team to be successful. 
One is the Scrum framework, which provides a simple yet tremendously effective approach to 
iterative development, consistent meetings, and clearly defined roles that promote collaboration, 
transparency, and adaptability. The Scrum-agile framework embraces change and challenges by 
allowing continuous improvement and crucial adaptation. Another beneficial principle is how 
this approach can empower team members to make decisions and take ownership of their work, 
which can lead to increased engagement across the board and an expanded sense of 
responsibility and significance. This principle is proven through the efficient and heeded 
meetings where each team member is listened to and fully understood. 
	The Scrum-agile approach did present several pros and cons throughout the process of 
completing this project. Some of the positives are how this approach encourages constant 
feedback and improvement, clear communication between all members, and adaptability to any 
possible changes or roadblocks that may present themselves during any stage in the process.
	Some of the negatives to this approach are its ultimately unclear timeline due to its strong 
adaptability, high unpredictability with possible delivery dates, and possible scope changes that 
can cause abundant challenges.
      Even with all the mentioned negatives to its approach, I do believe that Scrum-agile was 
the best option for the SNHU Travel development project. I strongly feel this way due to its way 
of handling and adapting to any possible uncertainties, which are truly inevitable, how it keeps 
all members engaged and open to communicate, and the use of incremental releases that really 
lets the development team show off their hard work to stakeholders, further strengthening that 
connection. 
	



References
Klotz, S. (2023) Mod 2 Journal Scrum Master. Unpublished document, Southern New 
Hampshire University.
Klotz, S. (2023) Mod 3 Journal Product Owner. Unpublished document, Southern New 
Hampshire University.
Klotz, S. (2023) Mod 4 Journal Product Tester. Unpublished document, Southern New 
Hampshire University.
Klotz, S. (2023) Mod 5 Journal Developer. Unpublished document, Southern New Hampshire 
University.
Klotz, S. (2023) Mod 6 Journal Communication Practices. Unpublished document, Southern 
New Hampshire University.
Charles G. Cobb. (2015). The Project Manager's Guide to Mastering Agile: Principles and 
Practices for an Adaptive Approach. Wiley.


8/7/2023	CS 250	Steven Klotz
